COMP4115 Spring 2015
Programming Assignment #2
Assigned: 17 February, 2015
Deadline: 26 February, 2015

mySQL Assignment: Game Tournament

Imagine there is an adventure videogame called Shadowkeep (in fact,
there used to be one, a text-based game I played on my Apple IIE, but
it's long since disappeared!). Suppose that every year there is a big
Shadowkeep tournament, with players and teams and sponsors and
everything.

Your job is to implement the database backend for a tournament results tracker. 

Below, I've given some criteria for the kinds of things you need to
keep track of. Consider them the minimum criteria, and feel free to
add more columns and data for stuff you would like to have in such a
database.

Your system will have to keep track of all the players, each with a
real name and a handle (a pseudonym used to drive fear into the hearts
of their opponents). Neither name or handle is required to be unique,
so each player will also need to have some kind of unique
identification name/number. The date of birth, home country, and
gender of each player are also tracked in the system.

Your database will also track teams, each made up of 3-7 players. Your
database is historical, so it keeps track of all teams past and
present (for your input data, create at least 5 teams). At
a minimum, you must track team names, members, date formed, and date
disbanded.

The big three-day Shadowkeep tournament happens every year. Your
database tracks the dates of each event, a unique name for each event
(e.g., "Shadowkeep 2014: The Fellowship"), the grand prize (some
significant amount of money), and the location (it takes place in a
different city every year).

Finally, of course, you must track the results of each match at every
tournament. A match consists of up to 5 games played between two
teams. The first team to win 3 games wins the match. It is a "single
elimination" tournament: as soon as one team loses a match, they are
out of it for good. Therefore, with every round, half the teams are
eliminated, so the number of teams permitted to enter any tournament
must be a power of 2.

PART 1A: 10 points: Schema

First, provide a schema for your database system. Start with a simple
written list of tables like the city/state/mayor/governor set-up we
saw in Problem Set 2.

Your schema should list all of the tables in your database, the
columns (including datatype) in each table, and indicate the primary
key with an asterisk or by underlining the field.

You can submit your schema via github in a plaintext file or a Word doc.

PART 1B: 15 points. Entity-relationship Diagram

You must also provide an entity-relationship model for your
database. Use draw.io or mySQL workbench (or another tool of your
choice, or just hand-draw it and take a picture) to create it. You
need not list every attribute of every table; however, it must include
what you deem to be the 5 most important entities of your system.

For each of the 5 entities, include in your ER diagram: 

* At least one attribute 

* Indicate whether it is a strong or weak entity 

* Where appropriate, specify its relationship type to other entities ("plays
at", for example).

You must submit your Entity-relationship diagram as an image file.

PART 1C: 20 points. Create the database

For this part, create all the tables needed for your database. Save
all of the commands you used to create your tables in a .sql file and
submit that via GitHub.

Muktadir and I will run your .sql commands to create your database for
ourselves.

PART 1C: 25 points. Populate the database.

Create .csv files for all of your tables. You must provide at least 8
rows of data per table.

Use the appropriate SQL command to bulk upload your .csv files, and
include your files as part of your github submission (again, Muktadir
and I will recreate your populated tables as part of grading).

PART 1D: 30 points. Run some queries.

Suppose I want to know the answers to the following questions. Put
together the SQL queries that will provide the correct answers, and
save them in a separate .sql file. 

You need not submit the results of running these queries as part of
your solution, but make sure they're correct and submit your .sql file
instead.

Note that some of these questions require some knowledge of the data
stored, which of course you'll be making up. Wherever I have a literal
in brackets [likethis], assume that's a variable, and plug in some
appropriate name, date, etc., that will make a good query against the
data you actually have.

* List the real name and birthdate of every female player.

* Give the handle and real name of every player from [Croatia]. <-- replace with a country you have in your database.

* List all matches where one team swept the other (i.e., the score was 3 games to 0).

* How much total prize money has been given out since the tournament began?

* How many teams are still active?

* List the real names of players from the defunct teams, without repetition.

* Which team has been the most successful (won the most money)?

* Which team has been the winningest (won the most matches)?

* How much money has player [PlayerName] won at tournaments, and playing for which teams?

* Another query of your choosing. Ask something interesting about your data.





